README.md, before:

# Demo of the Gracenote API to get theatres, movies, showings

This demo connects to the Gracenote API to get a list of movie showings.

To start, please see the [Gracenote Developer site and API Explorer tool](http://developer.tmsapi.com/io-docs)

This demo uses the Gracenote "OnConnect Data Delivery APIs".

The API provides URIs that look like this:

    http://data.tmsapi.com/v1.1/movies/showings
    ?api_key=tc7uqt2rvrygddhszep6zuvs
    &zip=10017
    &startDate=2017-08-01

The URI is a typical RESTful method with these pieces:

  * Entry point "http://data.tmsapi.com"
  * Semantic version number "v1.1"
  * RESTful nested method "movies/showings"
  * Query string with the API key and filters.


## Usage

Get your own Gracenote API key:

  1. Go to Gracenote and create a developer account and app.

  2. Go to http://data.tmsapi.com/

  3. Obtain your own free API key for the free public plan.

Optionally verify that your API key works:

  1. Try the `curl` command or `wget` command.

  2. Example: `curl 'http://data.tmsapi.com/v1.1/movies/showings?api_key=tc7uqt2rvrygddhszep6zuvs&zip=10017&startDate=2017-08-01'`

  3. The demo output is JSON text of the showings.

Use the Ruby script:

  1. Change the demo API key to your own API key.

  2. Run the Ruby script: `ruby demo.rb`

  3. The output is typical JSON text.

To see example output, view the file `demo-output.json`, which we've formatted for readability.


## Location

The API needs the movies showings request to provide a location, 
by using a U.S. zip (a.k.a. postal code) or latitude and longitude.

This demo uses the location of New York City Grand Central Station,
which is zip 10017. 

You'll likely want to edit the script for your own location.


## Help

If you run the ruby script and get an error about missing JSON:

  * Do you have a Ruby JSON gem?

  * Try to install the json gem: `gem install json`

  * Run the script again.

If you get error messages about API rate limiting:

  * Are you trying to make more calls faster than the free public plan allows? 

  * Be sure you edited the script to use your own API key, not the demo API key.

  * Try waiting a minute then try just 1 call.

If you need more help, please open an issue and we'll take a look.


## How to filter JSON

One way to filter JSON and format it is to use the `jq` command.

To learn `jq` please see https://stedolan.github.io/jq/

Example to filter by movie title and theatre id, and print just the raw date-time entries:

    cat demo-output.json | 
    jq -r '.[] 
      | select(.title=="Wonder Woman") 
      | .showtimes[] 
      | select(.theatre.id=="7503")
      | .dateTime' 

Output:

    2017-08-21T10:20
    2017-08-21T13:40
    2017-08-21T17:00
    2017-08-21T20:10
    2017-08-21T23:15


## How to combine JSON files

Suppose you have multiple files and you want to combine the data.

file-1.json

    [
      {
        "alpha": "bravo"
      }
    ]

file-2.json

    [
      {
        "charlie": "delta"
      }
    ]

Example:

    cat file-1.json file-2.json | jq -s '[.[][]]'

Output:

    [
      {
        "alpha": "bravo"
      },
      {
        "charlie": "delta"
      }
    ]


## Tracking

  * Package: demo_gracenote_api_theatres_movies_showings
  * Version: 2.0.0
  * Created: 2017-08-22
  * Updated: 2017-09-02
  * License: GPL
  * Contact: Joel Parker Henderson (joel@joelparkerhenderson.com)

Commit message:

Upgrade from demo to production

README.md, after:

# Gracenote API to get theatres, movies, showings

These scripts connect to the Gracenote API to get a list of movie showings.

To start, please see the [Gracenote Developer site and API Explorer tool](http://developer.tmsapi.com/io-docs)

These scripts use the Gracenote "OnConnect Data Delivery APIs".

The API provides URIs that look like this:

    http://data.tmsapi.com/v1.1/movies/showings
    ?api_key=tc7uqt2rvrygddhszep6zuvs
    &zip=10017
    &startDate=2017-08-01

The URI is a typical RESTful method with these pieces:

  * Entry point "http://data.tmsapi.com"
  * Semantic version number "v1.1"
  * RESTful nested method "movies/showings"
  * Query string with the API key and filters.


## Usage

Get your own Gracenote API key:

  1. Go to Gracenote and create a developer account and app.

  2. Go to http://data.tmsapi.com/

  3. Obtain your own free API key for the free public plan.

Optionally verify that your API key works:

  1. Try the `curl` command or `wget` command.

  2. Example: `curl 'http://data.tmsapi.com/v1.1/movies/showings?api_key=tc7uqt2rvrygddhszep6zuvs&zip=10017&startDate=2017-08-01'`

  3. The demo output is JSON text of the showings.

Use the Ruby script:

  1. Change the demo API key to your own API key.

  2. Run the Ruby script: `ruby demo.rb`

  3. The output is typical JSON text.

To see example output, view the file `demo-output.json`, which we've formatted for readability.


## Location

The API needs the movies showings request to provide a location, 
by using a U.S. zip (a.k.a. postal code) or latitude and longitude.

This demo uses the location of New York City Grand Central Station,
which is zip 10017. 

You'll likely want to edit the script for your own location.


## Help

If you run the ruby script and get an error about missing JSON:

  * Do you have a Ruby JSON gem?

  * Try to install the json gem: `gem install json`

  * Run the script again.

If you get error messages about API rate limiting:

  * Are you trying to make more calls faster than the free public plan allows? 

  * Be sure you edited the script to use your own API key, not the demo API key.

  * Try waiting a minute then try just 1 call.

If you need more help, please open an issue and we'll take a look.


## How to filter JSON

One way to filter JSON and format it is to use the `jq` command.

To learn `jq` please see https://stedolan.github.io/jq/

Example to filter by movie title and theatre id, and print just the raw date-time entries:

    cat demo-output.json | 
    jq -r '.[] 
      | select(.title=="Wonder Woman") 
      | .showtimes[] 
      | select(.theatre.id=="7503")
      | .dateTime' 

Output:

    2017-08-21T10:20
    2017-08-21T13:40
    2017-08-21T17:00
    2017-08-21T20:10
    2017-08-21T23:15


## How to combine JSON files

Suppose you have multiple files and you want to combine the data.

file-1.json

    [
      {
        "alpha": "bravo"
      }
    ]

file-2.json

    [
      {
        "charlie": "delta"
      }
    ]

Example:

    cat file-1.json file-2.json | jq -s '[.[][]]'

Output:

    [
      {
        "alpha": "bravo"
      },
      {
        "charlie": "delta"
      }
    ]


## Tracking

  * Package: demo_gracenote_api_theatres_movies_showings
  * Version: 2.0.0
  * Created: 2017-08-22
  * Updated: 2017-09-02
  * License: GPL
  * Contact: Joel Parker Henderson (joel@joelparkerhenderson.com)
